well a ship carrying 200 tons of food
for Gaza is still waiting to sail from
Cyprus the Open Arms will be the first
vessel to use a new Maritime Corridor
set up to bring humanitarian supplies
into the territory cypriate authorities
say the vessel has been cleared to sell
but there are problems over unloading
and distributing the aid DW's Rosie
burchard reports from
Cyprus we're flying into larica the
cypriate city that's become the new
gateway to Gaza Aid groups have been
busy loading a ship with much needed
food for the besieged territory we are
ready with almost 200 tons of food ready
to be delivered to people of gasa we
have rice flowers beans tuna and other
products ready to be distributed in gasa
the first of its kind sea delivery is
part of a new Maritime Aid Corridor a
deal carefully brokered by the cypriate
government alongside the European Union
the United Arab Emirates the United
States and others cypriate officials
check the Goods with Israeli oversight
and monitor the passage from this
coordination Center to try and ensure
they get to Gaza safely the first thing
and where we focus currently is to have
a successful uh first journey and then
of course we already have stored more
quantities of humanitarian Aid in Cyprus
we hope to establish the corridor to
really um be in a position to deal with
the dire situation on the ground this is
not a swift or simple route one of the
Charities involved is building a
makeshift Jetty to receive the aid and
separately the US plans to build a
bigger temporary Pier the United Nations
is now warning Gaza is on the brink of
famine it's some 400 kmet from here in
Cyprus and the roundtrip takes days
there is a quicker and easier way to get
Aid in through Road Crossings Israel
says it welcomes this sea Corridor and
that it's committed to getting food to
gazin but it's also faced heavy
criticism and accusations of blocking
Aid entry by land the new C Corridor
will bring some relief but given the
enormous need at its final destination
it's just a drop in the
ocean let's get excuse me let's get more
from our reporter Felix tamsut in
Jerusalem welcome Felix so as that a
ship waits to set sale bring us up to
date with the situation in Gaza at the
moment
well the situation seems to be ever
worsening when it comes to the lack of
food and other necessary products hunger
seems to be becoming an Ever growing
problem and at the same time uh we have
to bear in mind that the uh Israeli
attack in the southern city of Rafa uh
looming over um on the one hand we have
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu saying uh that such an attack
is uh essential for Israel for Israel
reaching its Target of eliminating Hamas
RAF is where more than 1 million
Palestinians are currently centering on
the other hand there are also reports
that such an attack is not imminent one
thing is clear uh the eyes of the world
are watching and uh this is going to
remain uh the case in the coming days
and weeks okay so as the the Muslim holy
month of Ramadan begins what is the
atmosphere like there in isra
well I would say that Israel is
currently on age when it comes to the uh
security aspect of Ramadan um the uh the
security Arrangements in and around uh
Jerusalem and the holy sites um is
currently being widely reported in the
news here and everyone seems to be
talking about whether there will be uh
uh certain restrictions uh as the month
of Ramadan uh keeps on going um at the
moment it seems like the situation is
relatively calm there have been some
clashes between Israeli police and
Muslims wanting to pray uh but at the
same time I think I think everyone's
eyes are towards Friday this is when uh
things uh could get tricky for the
Israeli Security Services um and um
everyone is uh here talking about
whether that's going to be the case this
coming Friday and uh what can you tell
us about these reports that Israel has
killed a high ranking Hamas official uh
who was believed to have been directly
involved in the October 7 Terror
attacks well we are talking about Maan
Isa a very high ranking Hamas official
um those reports uh are currently
widening in Israel that Israel believes
that he had been killed in the attack um
this hasn't been confirmed as of yet uh
if confirmed this would be the highest
ranking Hamas official to be killed by
by Israel since October 7th uh and
Israeli officials according to reports
here in Israel believe that uh this
would be a significant step uh towards
achieving the uh War's goals but at the
same time it needs to be said that no
official confirmation has been received
so far um such an such a confirmation um
could be received in the coming days
sometimes even weeks um and we're going
to stay uh on top of those reports and
uh should this information be confirmed
this is a big step um and a big stepping
stone in this war absolutely thank you
for that Felix of Felix tamot in
Jerusalem